Create tutorial-review.md (#1)
samuxyz/mongo-blog: tutorial-review.md

---
title: "Deploy a MERN stack with Express, React and MongoDB Atlas serverless database"
description: "This first part of MERN series shows how to build a Blog application and deploy it on Koyeb Serverless Platform."
tags: ["MongoDB", "Node", "Express", "React", "MERN"]
editUrl: "pages/tutorials/deploy-a-mern-stack-with-express-react-and-mongodb-atlas-serverless-database"
lastEdited: "2022-03-15T00:00:00.000Z"
authors:
  - fullname: "Samuele Zaza"
    avatar: "/static/images/team/szaza.jpg"
---

## Introduction

This is the first article of a mini-series focused on the popular MERN (Mongo, Express, React, Node) stack.
We will create a Blog sample app as it gives us a chance to dig into the MERN stack, building the fundamental blocks and connect the dots. At the end we should have a full-functioning basic Blog web app where authors can post, edit and delete articles. To complete the tutorial, the app will be deployed on the internet by using Koyeb serverless platform.
The second part, instead, will focus on creating a microservice to add extra search capabilities to the blog app by using mongo search atlas.

## Requirements

- A local environment with NPM and Node.js installed

> - Basic knowledge of JavaScript, Express, React and querying a MongoDB database using Mongoose

Author: ```suggestion
- A [MongoDB Atlas account](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register) to create a managed MongoDB database 
```

> - A [GitHub account](https://github.com) to version and deploy your application code on Koyeb

Author: ```suggestion
- A [Postman account](https://www.postman.com/) to test the API
- A [GitHub account](https://github.com) to version and deploy your application code on Koyeb
```

- A [Koyeb account](https://app.koyeb.com) to deploy and run the application

## Steps

1. Set up the project
2. Create a MongoDB Atlas database
3.
4.

## Set up the project

### Create the project client and server repos

Let's kick off the project by creating the repo `mongo-blog` and installing all the related dependencies.

Open your terminal and create the project folder:
```bash
mkdir mongo-blog
```

Move into `mongo-blog` first and setup Express using `express-generator`:

```bash
cd mongo-blog

> npx express-generator

Author: Could you add an explanation of what is npx and why you're using it in this project?

```

You will be prompted several questions to create the `package.json` file such as the project's name, version, and more.
Add the following code to the `package.json` file::

```
{
  "name": "mongo-blog-server",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  }
}
```

Next, we are going to add 2 more packages:

- `nodemon` to reload the server. As we are developing in our local environment, we want our server to reload whenever a change in the code occurs.
- `cors` to allow cross-origin resource sharing. This is important when the React-based client calls the server API in our local environment.

In your terminal go ahead and install them:

```bash

> yarn add nodemon --save-dev

Author: Could you add a brief explanation for the --save-dev?

yarn add cors
```

Open your `package.json` and add one more command under `scripts`:

```bash

{
  "name": "mongo-blog-server",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
+   "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
+   "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
+ "devDependencies": {
+   "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
+ }
}
```

In `app.js` we are going to require `cors` and attach it to the app:

> ```javascript

Author: Might be more helpful to put the entire `app.js` file here so the user can make sure their file matches yours

...
const cors = require('cors');
...
app.use(cors());
```

To model our application data and connect to a Mongo database to store posts we are going to use `mongoose` as it is a very straight-forward ORM built for Node:

```bash
yarn add mongoose
```

> Finally, we need to add an extra script to build the client `bundle.js` to be returned:

Author: Where is this file in the project? Maybe we can write, "Finally, we need to add an extra script to build the client `bundle.js` to be returned. In `package.json`, add the extra script so your file looks like this:

```bash
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www",
+   "build-client": "cd ./client && yarn build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "mongoose": "^6.2.3",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
  }
}
```

Let's run `npm install` in the terminal and we can now move to the client setup.

> First, create a folder `/client` and install React using `create-react-app`:

Author: ```suggestion
First, at the root of your project directory create a folder `/client` and install React using `create-react-app`:
```

    "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.2",
    "@testing-library/react": "^12.1.3",
    "@testing-library/user-event": "^13.5.0",
    "axios": "^0.26.0",
    "bootstrap": "5.1.3",
    "react": "^17.0.2",
    "react-bootstrap": "^2.1.2",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.2",
    "react-hook-form": "^7.27.1",
    "react-router-dom": "^6.2.1",
    "react-scripts": "5.0.0",
    "web-vitals": "^2.1.4"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "react-scripts start",
+   "build": "BUILD_PATH='../public' react-scripts build",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
  },
  "eslintConfig": {
    "extends": [
      "react-app",
      "react-app/jest"
    ]
  },
  "browserslist": {
    "production": [
      ">0.2%",
      "not dead",
      "not op_mini all"
    ],
    "development": [
      "last 1 chrome version",
      "last 1 firefox version",
      "last 1 safari version"
    ]
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's talk about styling. We don't really want to spend too much time dealing with CSS so we are using Bootstrap, specifically `react-bootstrap` so that we can include all the UI components we need without really adding CSS:

```bash
yarn add bootstrap@5.1.3 react-bootstrap
```

> 

Author: Could we add a file/folder map of the project here so the reader can verify they have everything set up in their project?

### Create a database on Mongo Atlas

The easiest way to setup our MongoDB database is to rely on a cloud service such as [Mongo Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/lp/try2). They host databases on AWS, Google Cloud, Azure and provide several options to operate and scale MongoDB painlessly.

> After signing-up you will be asked to fill-in a quick survey about the project.

Author: ```suggestion

```

In the plan page, choose the "shared" plan which starts for free:
[mongo-plan]

Next, choose the cloud provider and region, leave the default values for "cluster tier", "additional settings" and choose a cluster name, "mongo-blog-db".

> [mongo-deployment-1]

Author: ```suggestion

```

> [mongo-deployment-2]

Author: ```suggestion

```

> In the dashboard "quickstart" go ahead and create a username and password as we will need that to connecto the database later on. Plus, we can restrict IP access to the database. This is very important measure when going to production with a real app but for the purpose of the tutorial we can simply add `0.0.0.0/0` to allow access from any IP.

Author: ```suggestion
In the dashboard "quickstart", create a username and password and store these for later as we will need them to connect to the database later on. 

We can restrict IP access to the database, but for the purpose of the tutorial, we can simply add `0.0.0.0/0` to allow access from any IP.
```

> [mongo-db-setup-1]

Author: ```suggestion
```

> [mongo-db-setup 2]

Author: ```suggestion
```

```javascript
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const CONNECTION_STRING = `process.env.CONNECTION_STRING` // env variable we can defined in the package.json containing the connection string and pwd

// setup connection to mongo
mongoose.connect(CONNECTION_STRING);
const db = mongoose.connection;
// recover from errors
db.on('error', console.error.bind(console, 'connection error:'));
```

Since we decided to get the connection string as an environment variable, to test it in development we can add it to the `package.json`:

```bash
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www",
    "build-client": "cd ./client && yarn build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "mongoose": "^6.2.3",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
  },
+ "nodemonConfig": {
+   "env": {
+     "CONNECTION_STRING": "YOUR_CONNECTION_STRING_AND_PWD"
+   }
+ }
}

```

> 

Author: Is there a way the reader can test everything is working and set up correctly at this point before moving on?

Reviewer: A way to test things out is just to run the application in local and see no errors in the console. If that's the case, the connection to the DB was successful

Author: What's the command the user could run to do this? I am going to add a sentence here so readers can test everything is good with their database.

Reviewer: just run `yarn dev` to start the server and it will try to connect to mongo

Author: Perfect, thank you!

## Create the Blog post Model

With the database now up and running, it's time to create our first model `Post`. 
### Define the article schema
The basic schema for a blog post is defined by a title, the content of the post, the author, a creation date and optionally tags. The following should help us visualize the schema:

|  Fields  |      Type      |  Required |
|----------|:-------------:|:------:|
| title |  String | X |
| author |    String   |   X |
| content | String |    X |
| tags |    Array  |    |
| createdAt | Date |    X |

### Implement the schema using Mongoose

Mongoose straightforward syntax makes creating models a very simple operation.

> In `mongo-blog-server`create a new folder `/models` and a new file `post.js` in it:

Author: When did we create `mongo-blog-server`?

Reviewer: ignore that, I will fix it in my commit

[get-all-posts]
[get-post]

NB: Since we have just one post, the result of the API calls should be almost the same as GET `/api/posts` returns an array of posts with a single item in it.

How about updating the post? let's change the title and add an extra tag:

[update-post]

If you are unsure whether it was correctly updated, go ahead and call GET `/api/posts/post_id` again:

[get-updated-post]

it's not time to delete it:

[delete-post]

Run GET `/api/posts` again and you should get an empty list of posts as result:

[get-empty-list-of-posts]

## Blog UI with React

The server-side of the application is now complete so it's time work on the client.

### Client routes and basic layout

One of the very first things to define are the routes of our web application: The homepage, singles posts pages, create a new post and edit posts.
Here are the proposed URLs:

|  URL  |      Description  
|----------|:-------------|
| / |  Homepage | X |
| /posts/:post_id | Post content page   
| /posts/new | Page to create a new post 
| /posts/:post_id/edit | Page to edit a post

> In our code, the routes will all reside under `/app.js` using `react-router-dom` components `Routes` and `Route`:

Author: is this supposed to be `/client/src/App.js` ?

Reviewer: yes

```javascript

import { Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import Home from './pages/home';

function App() {
  return (
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
      </Routes>
  );
}

export default App;
```

In this example we are rendering the `Home` component when the browser hits the homepage.

> `app.js` acts as the root component of our client so we can imagine the shared layout of our blog being render through `App`: The Navbar with a button to create a new post is always visible on every page of our client application so it's only natural to render it here:

Author: Same here, is this supposed to be `app.js` or `App.js`?

const domain = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' ? '' : 'http://localhost:3001';

const http = (
  url,
  {
    method = 'GET',
    data = undefined,
  },
) => {
  return axios({
    url: `${domain}${url}`,
    method,
    data,
  });
};

// Main functions to handle different types of endpoints
const get = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { ...opts });
const post = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'POST', ...opts });
const put = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'PUT', ...opts });
const deleteData = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'DELETE', ...opts });

const methods = {
  get,
  post,
  put,
  delete: deleteData,
};

export default methods;
```

We will see how to use the `http` object in the next section.

### Create containers and reusable components

The very first component we are going to build is `Home`, in charge of rendering the list of posts as well as the header of the homepage.
To render the list of posts Home has to 
1. Call the server GET `/api/posts` endpoint after the first rendering
2. Store the array posts in the state
3. Render the posts to the user and link them to `/posts/:post_id` to read the content

> In the terminal create a folder `/pages` and a file `home.js` in it:

Author: Does this go inside the `mongo-blog` project or elsewhere? If elsewhere, can you add an explanation to guide the reader with what is happening?

Reviewer: I clarified it should be created under `/client`, let me know

      const { data } = await http.get('/api/posts');
      setPosts(data.data.posts);
    }
    fetchData();
  }, []);
  
  return (
    <>
      <Container className="my-5" style={{ maxWidth: '800px' }}>
        <Image
          src="avatar.jpeg"
          width="150"
          style={{ borderRadius: '50%' }}
          className="d-block mx-auto img-fluid"
        />
        <h2 className="text-center">Welcome to the Digital Marketing blog</h2>
      </Container>
      <Container style={{ maxWidth: '800px' }}>
        <ListGroup variant="flush" as="ol">
          {
            posts.map((post) => {
              // Map the posts to JSX
              return (
                <ListGroup.Item key={post._id}> 
                  <div className="fw-bold h3">
                    <Link to={`/posts/${post._id}`} style={{ textDecoration: 'none' }}>{post.title}</Link>
                  </div>
                  <div>{post.author} - <span className="text-secondary">{formatDate(post.createdAt)}</span></div>
                </ListGroup.Item>
              );
            })
          }
        </ListGroup>
      </Container>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

> One special mention goes to `formatDate`, a utility function that formats the post creation date to "MMMM DD, YYYY". We are expecing to call it in other components as well, this is why it is decoupled from `Home` into its own file.

Author: For the post creation date, is it MMMM or MM?

Reviewer: I wrote MMMM as the month is gonna be displayed as a string "January", not "01".

Author: Ok, great! Thanks for the clarification.

        <h1>{post.title}</h1>
        <div className="text-secondary mb-4">{formatDate(post.createdAt)}</div>
        {post.tags?.map((tag) => <span>{tag} </span>)}
        <div className="h4 mt-5">{post.content}</div>
        <div className="text-secondary mb-5">- {post.author}</div>
        <div className="mb-5">
          <Link
            variant="primary"
            className=" btn btn-primary m-2"
            to={`/posts/${postId}/edit`}
          >
            Edit
          </Link>
          <Button variant="danger" onClick={deletePost}>Delete</Button>
        </div>
        <Link to="/" style={{ textDecoration: 'none' }}>&#8592; Back to Home</Link>
      </Container>
    </>
  );
};

export default Post;
```

The UI will look like this:

[react-post-content]

As we redirect the user to another page when editing the blog post, create the file `edit.js` inside `/pages`:

```bash
touch edit.js
```

The UI will show a form filled with the blog post data for title, author, content and tags. Users can
1. Edit each one of the fields
2. submit the data to the server by calling PUT `/api/posts/:post_id`

> Note that we are using `react-hook-form` to register fields, collect the data and submit to the server. For the purpose of the tutorial we are not performing any validation on the data but it is fairly simple to be added thanks to react-hook-form simple API.

Author: How and when are we using this? Was it a part of a package? Could you add some explanation around this to clarify its use?

Reviewer: Actually the tutorial tells the users to install it at the beginning, under "Create the project client and server repos", around line 214. Basically the only usage is to submit the form to the server.

Author: You're right, thanks Sam!

> 

Author: Where does this code go? Inside `edit.js`?

Reviewer: yes, i forgot to write it

        </Form.Group>
        <Form.Group className="mb-3">
          <Form.Label>Author</Form.Label>
          <Form.Control type="text" placeholder="Enter author" {...register('author')} />
        </Form.Group>
        <Form.Group className="mb-3">
          <Form.Label>Tags</Form.Label>
          <Form.Control type="text" placeholder="Enter tags" {...register('tags')} />
          <Form.Text className="text-muted">
            Enter them separately them with ","
          </Form.Text>
        </Form.Group>
        <Form.Group className="mb-3">
          <Form.Label>Content</Form.Label>
          <Form.Control as="textarea" rows={3} placeholder="Your content..." {...register('content')} />
        </Form.Group>
        <Button variant="primary" type="submit">Publish</Button>
      </Form>
      <Link to="/" style={{ textDecoration: 'none' }}>&#8592; Back to Home</Link>
    </Container>
  );
};

export default Post;
```

The code is very similar to `edit.js`. Here is the UI:

[react-create-post]

Congratulations, we finished the UI as well so we are now ready to deploy our blog app on the internet!

## Deploy the app on Koyeb

> 

Author: We should add a step here about creating a GitHub repo and pushing our code to it:

`git init
git remote add origin git@github.com:<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>/<YOUR_GITHUB_REPOSITORY>.git
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git push -u origin main
`

## Requirements

- A local environment with NPM and Node.js installed
- A [MongoDB Atlas account](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register) to create a managed MongoDB database 
- A [Postman account](https://www.postman.com/) to test the API
- A [GitHub account](https://github.com) to version and deploy your application code on Koyeb
- A [Koyeb account](https://app.koyeb.com) to deploy and run the application

## Steps

1. Set up the project
2. Create a MongoDB Atlas database
3.
4.

## Set up the project

### Create the project client and server repos

Let's kick off the project by creating the repo `mongo-blog` and installing all the related dependencies.

Open your terminal and create the project folder:
```bash
mkdir mongo-blog
```

Move into `mongo-blog` first and setup Express using `express-generator`:

```bash
cd mongo-blog
npx express-generator
```

By using npx we can execute express-generator without installing the package.

You will be prompted several questions to create the `package.json` file such as the project's name, version, and more.
Add the following code to the `package.json` file::

```
{

>   "name": "mongo-blog-server",

Author: ```suggestion
  "name": "mongo-blog",
```

  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  }
}
```

> Next, we are going to add 2 more packages:

Author: Could we put this step in front of the package.json file above? I was not prompted to create the package.json and I am thinking if we install the dependencies first, we can only put the second package.json file's content, which will make this section more concise. What do you think?

Reviewer: The problem is that when you run npx express-generator, you gonna basically override the original content. So if you install different dependencies first, you risk to lose them and are forced to install them again (or at least add them manually inside the package.json)

- `nodemon` to reload the server. As we are developing in our local environment, we want our server to reload whenever a change in the code occurs.
- `cors` to allow cross-origin resource sharing. This is important when the React-based client calls the server API in our local environment.

In your terminal go ahead and install them:

```bash
yarn add nodemon --save-dev
yarn add cors
```

Note that the option "--save-dev" installed nodemon as devDependency as we only need it for local development.

Open your `package.json` and add one more command under `scripts`:

```bash

{

>   "name": "mongo-blog-server",

Author: ```suggestion
  "name": "mongo-blog",
```

Double-checking that changing this is correct

```javascript
const createError = require('http-errors');
const express = require('express');
const path = require('path');
const cookieParser = require('cookie-parser');
const logger = require('morgan');
const cors = require('cors');

const indexRouter = require('./routes/index');
const usersRouter = require('./routes/users');

const app = express();

// view engine setup
app.set('views', path.join(__dirname, 'views'));
app.set('view engine', 'jade');

app.use(logger('dev'));
app.use(express.json());
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: false }));
app.use(cookieParser());
app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, 'public')));
app.use(cors());

app.use('/', indexRouter);
app.use('/users', usersRouter);

// catch 404 and forward to error handler
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  next(createError(404));
});

// error handler
app.use(function(err, req, res, next) {
  // set locals, only providing error in development
  res.locals.message = err.message;
  res.locals.error = req.app.get('env') === 'development' ? err : {};

  // render the error page
  res.status(err.status || 500);
  res.render('error');
});

module.exports = app;

> =

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

> To model our application data and connect to a Mongo database to store posts we are going to use `mongoose` as it is a very straight-forward ORM built for Node:

Author: Could we group adding this dependency with nodemon and cors?

```bash
yarn add mongoose
```

Finally, we need to add an extra script to build the client `bundle.js` to be returned. In package.json, add the extra script so your file looks like this:

```bash
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www",
+   "build-client": "cd ./client && yarn build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "mongoose": "^6.2.3",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
  }
}
```

Let's run `npm install` in the terminal and we can now move to the client setup.

> First, at the root of your project directory create a folder `/client` and install React using `create-react-app`:

Author: ```suggestion
First, at the root of your project directory create a folder `/client`, move into this folder and install React using `create-react-app`:
```

  "version": "0.1.0",
  "private": true,
  "dependencies": {
    "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.2",
    "@testing-library/react": "^12.1.3",
    "@testing-library/user-event": "^13.5.0",
    "axios": "^0.26.0",
    "bootstrap": "5.1.3",
    "react": "^17.0.2",
    "react-bootstrap": "^2.1.2",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.2",
    "react-hook-form": "^7.27.1",
    "react-router-dom": "^6.2.1",
    "react-scripts": "5.0.0",
    "web-vitals": "^2.1.4"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "react-scripts start",
+   "build": "BUILD_PATH='../public' react-scripts build",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
  },
  "eslintConfig": {
    "extends": [
      "react-app",
      "react-app/jest"
    ]
  },
  "browserslist": {
    "production": [
      ">0.2%",
      "not dead",
      "not op_mini all"
    ],
    "development": [
      "last 1 chrome version",
      "last 1 firefox version",
      "last 1 safari version"
    ]
  }
}
```

Lastly, let's talk about styling. We don't really want to spend too much time dealing with CSS so we are using Bootstrap, specifically `react-bootstrap` so that we can include all the UI components we need without really adding CSS:

> ```bash

Author: Could we also group adding this with the others above, others meaning nodemon, cors, mongoose?

[mongo-db-setup-1]
[mongo-db-setup 2]

The database will successfully deploy in a few minutes, in the meantime we can click on the "connect" button, choose "connect your application" and copy the connection string.

[mongo-connection]
A typical connection string should look  like this:

```
mongodb+srv://samuele:<password>@mongo-client-db.r5bv5.mongodb.net/myFirstDatabase?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

Move back the codebase, open `app.js` to require mongoose, connect it to the database by using the connection string and recover from potential errors:

```javascript
const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const CONNECTION_STRING = `process.env.CONNECTION_STRING` // env variable we can defined in the package.json containing the connection string and pwd

// setup connection to mongo
mongoose.connect(CONNECTION_STRING);
const db = mongoose.connection;
// recover from errors
db.on('error', console.error.bind(console, 'connection error:'));
```

> Since we decided to get the connection string as an environment variable, to test it in development we can add it to the `package.json`:

Author: Is it ok to add this string as an environment variable, could or should we add it as a 'Secret' value when deploying everything on Koyeb? If you think it's better to keep it this way, what about this edit below:

"Since we decided to get the connection string as an environment variable, to test it in development we can add it to the `package.json` located in the root directory:"

Reviewer: Yes, adding it as env variable when deploy on Koyeb is the actual goal. Fixed the copy

  }

  next();
});

// Exports the PostSchema for use elsewhere.
module.exports = mongoose.model('Post', PostSchema);
```

1. Require Mongoose and use the `Schema` class to create `PostSchema`.
2. When creating the object `PostSchema`, we add the fields title, content, author, tags, createdAt.
3. Instruct `PostSchema` to automatically add the creation date right before saving the new post inside the database for us.
4. We export the model to use it within our controllers to perform CRUD operations on the posts.

## Blog API endpoints with Express

Now that we have completed the modelling of our blog posts we can create API endpoints to work with them. As mentioned earlier, our blog app allows users to write, read, edit and delete posts, so we can code a few endpoints to achieve that. Specifically:

1. GET `/api/posts` returns all the posts in descending order, from the latest to the earliest.
2. GET `/api/posts/:id` returns a single blog post given its id.
3. POST `/api/posts` saves a new blog post into the db.
4. PUT `/api/posts/:id` updates a blog post given its id.
5. DELETE `/api/posts/:id` deletes a blog post.

### Create CRUD endpoints using express routes

> Thanks to `express-generator` scaffolding we already have the routes folder `/routes` inside `mongo-blog-server`. In the terminal create a new file `posts.js` inside of it:

Author: ```suggestion
Thanks to `express-generator` scaffolding we already have the routes folder `/routes` inside `mongo-blog`. In the terminal create a new file `posts.js` inside of it:
```

```bash
touch /routes/posts.js
```

> Using express `Router` object we are going to create each endpoint. The first one, GET `/api/posts` retrieves the posts using our newly create Post model function `find()`, sort them using `sort()` and then return the whole list to the client:

Author: ```suggestion
Using the express `Router` object we are going to create each endpoint. The first one, GET `/api/posts` retrieves the posts using our newly create Post model function `find()`, sort them using `sort()` and then return the whole list to the client:
```

```javascript
const express = require('express');
const router = express.Router();
// Require the post model
const Post = require('../models/post');

/* GET posts */
router.get('/', async (req, res, next) => {
  // sort from the latest to the earliest
  const posts = await Post.find().sort({ createdAt: 'desc' });
  return res.status(200).json({
    statusCode: 200,
    message: 'Fetched all posts',
    data: { posts },
  });
});
```

In one single line of code we fetched and sorted the post, that's Mongoose magic!

We can implement GET `/api/posts/:id` similarly but this time we are using `findById` and we are passing the URL parameter `id`:

```javascript
...

> /* GET post */

Author: I think it'd be best to show the entire contents of `posts.js` all at once and we can include the explanations as either comments in the code or as bullet points afterward. What do you think?

Reviewer: I am not against that but this was done on purpose to build the entire router incrementally which, from a reader's perspective, is easier to digest than the entire file shown all at once. I recall i was once suggested to avoid throwing long files of code and explain things later on.
It's up to debate though, what do you think?

router.get('/:id', async (req, res, next) => {
 // req.params contains the route parameters and the id is one of them
  const post = await Post.findById(req.params.id);
  return res.status(200).json({
    statusCode: 200,
    message: 'Fetched post',
    data: {
      post: post || {},
    },
  });
});
```

> Note that if we cannot find any post with that id, we are still returning a positive 200 HTTP status with an empty object as post.

Author: What about "If we cannot find any post with the `id` that is passed, we still return a positive 200 HTTP status with an empty object as the post." or

> At this point we have functioning endpoints but without posts in the DB we cannot really do much. Let's fix this by creating a POST `/api/posts` endpoint:

Author: ```suggestion
At this point, we have functioning endpoints but without any posts in the database, so we cannot really do much. To change this, we will create a POST `/api/posts` endpoint, so we can start adding posts.
```

In `req.body` we collect the title, author, content and tags coming from the client, then create a new post save it into the DB:

```javascript
/* POST post */
router.post('/', async (req, res, next) => {
  const { title, author, content, tags } = req.body;
  // Create a new post
  const post = new Post({
    title,
    author,
    content,
    tags,
  });
  // Save the post into the DB
  await post.save();
  return res.status(201).json({
    statusCode: 201,
    message: 'Created post',
    data: { post },
  });
});
```

Next, we want to retrieve and update a post. For this action, we can create a PUT `/api/posts/:id` endpoint while Mongoose provides a handy function `findByIdAndUpdate`:

```javascript
/* PUT post */
router.put('/:id', async (req, res, next) => {
  const { title, author, content, tags } = req.body;
  // findByIdAndUpdate accepts the post id as first parameter and the new values as second parameter
  const post = await Post.findByIdAndUpdate(
    req.params.id,
    { title, author, content, tags },
  );
  
  return res.status(200).json({
    statusCode: 200,
    message: 'Updated post',
    data: { post },
  });
});
```

> The only action left is the ability of deleting a specific blog post by sending its id. Mongoose once again provides a function `deleteOne` we can use to tell Mongo to delete the post with that id:

Author: ```suggestion
The last action we will add is the ability to delete a specific blog post by sending its `id`. Mongoose once again provides a function `deleteOne` that we can use to tell our Mongo database to delete the post with that `id`:

```

```javascript
...
/* DELETE post */
router.delete('/:id', async (req, res, next) => {
  // Mongo stores the id as `_id` by default
  const result = await Post.deleteOne({ _id: req.params.id });
  return res.status(200).json({
    statusCode: 200,
    message: `Deleted ${result.deletedCount} post(s)`,
    data: {},
  });
});

module.exports = router;
```

> We completed our new router, we just have to attach it to our server and test it out with POSTMAN. Open `app.js` and under `indexRouter` go ahead and add `postsRouter` as well:

Author: ```suggestion
Following the steps above, we have just built our new router. Now, we have to attach it to our server and test it out using POSTMAN, an API platform for building and using APIs. Open `app.js` and under `indexRouter` go ahead and add `postsRouter` as well:
```

What do you think of this rephrasing? Does it capture the flow and your original meaning? Also could we add a sentence about why we are adding 'postsRouter' here?

```javascript
...
app.use(logger('dev'));
app.use(express.json());
app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: false }));
app.use(cookieParser());
app.use(express.static(path.join(__dirname, 'public')));
app.use(cors());

app.use('/', indexRouter);
// add postsRouter to the server
app.use('/api/posts', postsRouter);
```

### Testing the endpoints using Postman

In absence of a client we can use [POSTMAN](#https://www.postman.com/) to test our API as it is extremely flexible and easy to use:
It allows us to specificy the type of request (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc.), the type of payload, if any, and several other option to fine-tune our tests

We currently have an empty database so the very first test can be the creation of a post: Let's specify we want a POST request to `http://localhost:3001/api/posts`. For the body payload, select `raw` and choose `JSON` in the dropdown so that we can use JSON syntax to create it. Here is the result of the call:

> [create-blog-post]

Author: are these placeholders for images that you'll upload to imgur?

Reviewer: I actually uploaded the entire folder of pics on Notion

To make sure the post was really created, we can make a call to `http://localhost:3001/api/posts` to get the full list of posts as well as `http://localhost:3001/api/posts/:post_id` to fetch the single post:

[get-all-posts]
[get-post]

NB: Since we have just one post, the result of the API calls should be almost the same as GET `/api/posts` returns an array of posts with a single item in it.

> How about updating the post? let's change the title and add an extra tag:

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to update the post, for example if you want to change the title and add an extra tag, **add instructions about how to do this**:
```

What do you think about this rephrasing and adding instructions that explain to the reader how to make these updates?

[update-post]

If you are unsure whether it was correctly updated, go ahead and call GET `/api/posts/post_id` again:

[get-updated-post]

> it's not time to delete it:

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, test that deleting the post works as expected:
```

Should there be any instructions here showing the reader how to delete? Is it done on the POSTMAN UI?

[delete-post]

Run GET `/api/posts` again and you should get an empty list of posts as result:

[get-empty-list-of-posts]

## Blog UI with React

The server-side of the application is now complete so it's time work on the client.

### Client routes and basic layout

One of the very first things to define are the routes of our web application: The homepage, singles posts pages, create a new post and edit posts.
Here are the proposed URLs:

|  URL  |      Description  
|----------|:-------------|
| / |  Homepage | X |
| /posts/:post_id | Post content page   
| /posts/new | Page to create a new post 
| /posts/:post_id/edit | Page to edit a post

> In our code, the routes will all reside under `/client/src/App.js` using `react-router-dom` components `Routes` and `Route`:

Author: ```suggestion
In our code, the routes will all reside under `/client/src/App.js` using `react-router-dom` components `Routes` and `Route`. Move into `App.js` and edit the file with the following:
```

> ```javascript

Author: Could we cut this snippet, show the entire `App.js` file, and put all your explanations as either comments in the code or list them in a bullet point list after the code snippet to explain what these parts of the code are doing?

Reviewer: similarly to the response above, my goal was not to throw the entire code all at once but guide the user into building the main files while showing how to think using components.

import { Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import Home from './pages/home';

function App() {
  return (
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
      </Routes>
  );
}

export default App;
```

In this example we are rendering the `Home` component when the browser hits the homepage.

> `App.js` acts as the root component of our client so we can imagine the shared layout of our blog being render through `App`: The Navbar with a button to create a new post is always visible on every page of our client application so it's only natural to render it here:

Author: ```suggestion
`App.js` acts as the root component of our client so we can imagine the shared layout of our blog being rendered through `App.js`. Our blog page will have a Navbar with a button that will let you create a new post. This Navbar will be visible on every page of our client application, so it is best to render it here in `App.js`:
```

What do you think of this rephrasing? Does it capture the original meaning and add clarity?

```javascript
import 'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css';
import { Routes, Route } from 'react-router-dom';

// We are going to implement each one of these "pages" in the last section
import Home from './pages/home';
import Post from './pages/post';
import Create from './pages/create';
import Edit from './pages/edit';

import Navbar from 'react-bootstrap/Navbar';
import Nav from 'react-bootstrap/Nav';
import Container from 'react-bootstrap/Container';

function App() {
  return (
    <>
      <Navbar bg="dark" expand="lg" variant="dark">
        <Container>
          <Navbar.Brand href="/">My Blog</Navbar.Brand>
          <Navbar.Toggle aria-controls="basic-navbar-nav" />
          <Nav className="me-auto">
            <Nav.Link href="/posts/new">New</Nav.Link>
          </Nav>
        </Container>
      </Navbar>
      <Routes>
        <Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
        <Route path="/posts/:id" element={<Post />} />
        <Route path="/posts/new" element={<Create />} />
        <Route path="/posts/:id/edit" element={<Edit />} />
      </Routes>
    </>
  );
}

> export default App;

Author: ```suggestion
export default App
```

```

### Axios client

> Our client will have to make API calls to the server to perform operations on the database, this is why we installed `axios` at the beginning of this tutorial. It is now time to use it, however we can wrap inside a `http` library file and export it as a module:

Author: ```suggestion
Our client will have to make API calls to the server to perform operations on the database. This is why we installed `axios` earlier. It is now time to use it. 

We will wrap it inside an `http` library file and export it as a module. We do this for two reasons:
```

> 1. We need to take into account that making API calls in local is like calling a different server as client and servers run on different ports, a complete different configuration compared to the deployment on Koyeb later on.

Author: I don't think I follow what is being said here. Is there another way to say this?

"We need to take into account that making API calls in local is like calling a different server. As client and servers run on different ports, this is a completely different configuration compared to the deployment we will do on Koyeb later on."

Does this capture the original meaning of this sentence or am I misunderstanding something here?

Reviewer: yes, you definitely explained better than i did.

2. The HTTP object is exported along with the basic methods to call GET, POST, PUT and DELETE endpoints.

> Create a new folder `/lib` and inside add `http.js`

Author: ```suggestion
In `/client/src`, create a new folder `/lib` and inside add an `http.js` file:
```

```bash
  mkdir lib
  touch /lib/http.js
```

Add the following code:

```javascript
import axios from 'axios';
// When building the client into a static file, we do not need to include the server path as it is returned by it
const domain = process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' ? '' : 'http://localhost:3001';

const http = (
  url,
  {
    method = 'GET',
    data = undefined,
  },
) => {
  return axios({
    url: `${domain}${url}`,
    method,
    data,
  });
};

// Main functions to handle different types of endpoints
const get = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { ...opts });
const post = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'POST', ...opts });
const put = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'PUT', ...opts });
const deleteData = (url, opts = {}) => http(url, { method: 'DELETE', ...opts });

const methods = {
  get,
  post,
  put,
  delete: deleteData,
};

export default methods;
```

> We will see how to use the `http` object in the next section.

Author: Could we add a short sentence here to sum up what the reader just did? How's:

"We have just finished setting up our client to make API calls to the server to perform operations on the database."

> ### Create containers and reusable components

Author: Can we add a sentence here to explain to the reader why we are creating containers and reusable components?

                  </div>
                  <div>{post.author} - <span className="text-secondary">{formatDate(post.createdAt)}</span></div>
                </ListGroup.Item>
              );
            })
          }
        </ListGroup>
      </Container>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

One special mention goes to `formatDate`, a utility function that formats the post creation date to "MMMM DD, YYYY". We are expecing to call it in other components as well, this is why it is decoupled from `Home` into its own file.
In the terminal create the file `formatDate.js` under `/lib`:

```bash
touch lib/formatDate.js
```

```javascript
const formatDate = (date, locale = 'en-US') => {
  if (!date) return null;

  const options = { year: 'numeric', month: 'long', day: 'numeric' };
  const formattedDate = new Date(date);
  return formattedDate.toLocaleDateString(locale, options);
};

export default formatDate;
```

It is a very straightforward function that takes the date from the DB, create a `Date` object and format it by setting locale and options.

The resulting UI will look like this:

[react-homepage]

> The logic behind showing the blog post content is not too different than the one we saw for `Home`:

Author: ```suggestion
Next, we will set up the part of the UI to display the blog posts. The logic behind showing the blog post content is not too different than the one we saw for `Home`:
```

- A [GitHub account](https://github.com) to version and deploy your application code on Koyeb
- A [Koyeb account](https://app.koyeb.com) to deploy and run the application

## Steps

1. Set up the project
2. Create a MongoDB Atlas database
3.
4.

## Set up the project

### Create the project client and server repos

Let's kick off the project by creating the repo `mongo-blog` and installing all the related dependencies.

Open your terminal and create the project folder:
```bash
mkdir mongo-blog
```

Move into `mongo-blog` first and setup Express using `express-generator`:

```bash
cd mongo-blog
npx express-generator
```

By using npx we can execute express-generator without installing the package.

You will be prompted several questions to create the `package.json` file such as the project's name, version, and more.
Add the following code to the `package.json` file::

```
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "start": "node ./bin/www"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  }
}
```

> Next, we are going to add 5 more packages:

Author: You're right about these packages needing to be set up later to avoid issues. I am putting this back to how you had it before. 👍

app.use(cors());

app.use('/', indexRouter);
app.use('/users', usersRouter);

// catch 404 and forward to error handler
app.use(function(req, res, next) {
  next(createError(404));
});

// error handler
app.use(function(err, req, res, next) {
  // set locals, only providing error in development
  res.locals.message = err.message;
  res.locals.error = req.app.get('env') === 'development' ? err : {};

  // render the error page
  res.status(err.status || 500);
  res.render('error');
});

module.exports = app;
```

Finally, we need to add an extra script to build the client `bundle.js` to be returned. In package.json, add the extra script so your file looks like this:

```bash
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www",
+   "build-client": "cd ./client && yarn build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "mongoose": "^6.2.3",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
  }
}
```

> Let's run `npm install` in the terminal and we can now move to the client setup.

Author: Why run this command? Could we add a sentence here to guide the reader.

First, at the root of your project directory create a folder `/client`, move into this folder and install React using `create-react-app`:

```bash
npx create-react-app .
```

Similarly to `express-generator` the command will create a ready-to-go React project hiding most of the tedious configurations required in the past.

On top of the basic packages (react, react-dom...) we have to carefully think about what our blog client needs:

- Clearly, the client should make API calls to the server to perform basic CRUD operations on the database.
- There are gonna be different pages to create, read, edit and delete blog posts.
- We can assume there is need for forms to create and edit a post.

Those are very common functionalities and the npm ecosystem offers tons of different packages. For the purpose of the tutorial, we are gonna install `axios` to make API calls, `react-router-dom` to handle client routing and `react-hook-form` to submit form data.

In the terminal, go ahead and install them:

```bash
yarn add axios react-router-dom react-hook-form
```

> As both server and client share the same repo, the folder `/public` in the root will be used to return the static client after building it. To do so, we need to tweak the "build" script inside `/client/package.json` to build the static files in it:

Author: I don't completely follow the meaning of this first sentence. Does this revision capture your original meaning:

"For our application, the server and client share the same repository. This means we can use the folder `/public` located in the project's root directory to return the static client after it is built. To do this, we need to tweak the "build" script inside `/client/package.json` to build the static files in it:"

Let me know if this works or if you would say it differently. 🙂

Reviewer: this is good, i am gonna replace your copy.

```javascript
{
  "name": "mongo-blog-client",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "private": true,
  "dependencies": {
    "@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.2",
    "@testing-library/react": "^12.1.3",
    "@testing-library/user-event": "^13.5.0",
    "axios": "^0.26.0",
    "bootstrap": "5.1.3",
    "react": "^17.0.2",
    "react-bootstrap": "^2.1.2",
    "react-dom": "^17.0.2",
    "react-hook-form": "^7.27.1",
    "react-router-dom": "^6.2.1",
    "react-scripts": "5.0.0",
    "web-vitals": "^2.1.4"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "react-scripts start",
+   "build": "BUILD_PATH='../public' react-scripts build",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
  },
  "eslintConfig": {
    "extends": [
      "react-app",
      "react-app/jest"
    ]
  },
  "browserslist": {
    "production": [
      ">0.2%",
      "not dead",
      "not op_mini all"
    ],
    "development": [
      "last 1 chrome version",
      "last 1 firefox version",
      "last 1 safari version"
    ]
  }
}
```

> 

Author: What do you think about adding this line here:

"Finally, we are going to drop one file to prepare for our deployment: `package-lock.json`. From your project's root directory:

```
rm package-lock.json
```
"

Reviewer: yeah sure

In the plan page, choose the "shared" plan which starts for free:
[mongo-plan]

Next, choose the cloud provider and region, leave the default values for "cluster tier", "additional settings" and choose a cluster name, "mongo-blog-db".

In the dashboard "quickstart" go ahead and create a username and password as we will need that to connect the database later on. Plus, we can restrict IP access to the database. This is very important measure when going to production with a real app but for the purpose of the tutorial we can simply add `0.0.0.0/0` to allow access from any IP.

The database will successfully deploy in a few minutes, in the meantime we can click on the "connect" button, choose "connect your application" and copy the connection string.

[mongo-connection]
A typical connection string should look  like this:

```
mongodb+srv://samuele:<password>@mongo-client-db.r5bv5.mongodb.net/myFirstDatabase?retryWrites=true&w=majority
```

Move back the codebase, open `app.js` to require mongoose, connect it to the database by using the connection string and recover from potential errors:

> ```javascript

Author: I am having an issue confirming my database becomes connected to the application and then when I try deploying on Koyeb I am receiving an authentication error. Did you have any issues with this when deploying to Koyeb?

Is there a way we could connect the database in the way it was done in this tutorial? https://www.koyeb.com/tutorials/deploy-a-graphql-api-with-mongodb-atlas-and-apollo-server-on-koyeb

Let me know what you think about this.

Reviewer: hey @alisdairbr, I reviewed the tutorial and how I guide users to try the connection in local and then inject the connection string as env variable from Koyeb. You are right, I did overcomplicate things so I have just reworked it a little bit.

I do not add any nodemon related env variable but instead instruct the users to add the connection string inside `app.js`. Then, in the final part of the tutorial, when teaching readers to deploy on Koyeb, we are removing the hardcoded string and replace it with `process.env.CONNECTION_STRING` that we can inject. Please let me know if this fix your issue and it makes it clearer as well

const mongoose = require('mongoose');
const CONNECTION_STRING = `process.env.CONNECTION_STRING` // env variable we can defined in the package.json containing the connection string and pwd

// setup connection to mongo
mongoose.connect(CONNECTION_STRING);
const db = mongoose.connection;
// recover from errors
db.on('error', console.error.bind(console, 'connection error:'));
```

Since we decided to get the connection string as an environment variable, to test it in development we can add it to the package.json located in the root directory:

```bash
{
  "name": "mongo-blog",
  "version": "0.0.0",
  "private": true,
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "nodemon ./bin/www",
    "start": "node ./bin/www",
    "build-client": "cd ./client && yarn build"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "cookie-parser": "~1.4.4",
    "cors": "^2.8.5",
    "debug": "~2.6.9",
    "express": "~4.16.1",
    "http-errors": "~1.6.3",
    "jade": "~1.11.0",
    "mongoose": "^6.2.3",
    "morgan": "~1.9.1"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "nodemon": "^2.0.15"
  },
+ "nodemonConfig": {
+   "env": {

> +     "MONGO_PWD": "YOUR_MONGO_USER_PWD"

Author: Is it ok to hardcode the password here?

Reviewer: For the purpose of the tutorial I could say yes, definitely not for an app going to production

Reviewer: @alisdairbr just removed this piece of code

  // render the error page
  res.status(err.status || 500);
  res.render('error');
});

module.exports = app;

```

### Testing the endpoints using Postman

In absence of a client we can use [POSTMAN](#https://www.postman.com/) to test our API as it is extremely flexible and easy to use:
It allows us to specificy the type of request (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc.), the type of payload, if any, and several other option to fine-tune our tests

We currently have an empty database so the very first test can be the creation of a post: Let's specify we want a POST request to `http://localhost:3001/api/posts`. For the body payload, select `raw` and choose `JSON` in the dropdown so that we can use JSON syntax to create it. Here is the result of the call:

[create-blog-post]

To make sure the post was really created, we can make a call to `http://localhost:3001/api/posts` to get the full list of posts as well as `http://localhost:3001/api/posts/:post_id` to fetch the single post:

[get-all-posts]
[get-post]

NB: Since we have just one post, the result of the API calls should be almost the same as GET `/api/posts` returns an array of posts with a single item in it.

> If you want to update the post, for example if you want to change the title and add an extra tag, **add instructions about how to do this**:

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to update the post, for example, if you want to change the title and add an extra tag:
```

Hi Sam, here could you add an explanation about what the reader will need to do here to perform the post update?

                  </div>
                  <div>{post.author} - <span className="text-secondary">{formatDate(post.createdAt)}</span></div>
                </ListGroup.Item>
              );
            })
          }
        </ListGroup>
      </Container>
    </>
  );
};

export default Home;
```

One special mention goes to `formatDate`, a utility function that formats the post creation date to "MMMM DD, YYYY". We are expecing to call it in other components as well, this is why it is decoupled from `Home` into its own file.
In the terminal create the file `formatDate.js` under `/lib`:

```bash
touch lib/formatDate.js
```

```javascript
const formatDate = (date, locale = 'en-US') => {
  if (!date) return null;

  const options = { year: 'numeric', month: 'long', day: 'numeric' };
  const formattedDate = new Date(date);
  return formattedDate.toLocaleDateString(locale, options);
};

export default formatDate;
```

It is a very straightforward function that takes the date from the DB, create a `Date` object and format it by setting locale and options.

The resulting UI will look like this:

> [react-homepage]

Author: Is this the same screenshot as line 724 or are they supposed to be different images?

Reviewer: it's the same as on line 724 we show a preview of what the homepage will look like
